hi my name is JT and I'm a fourth-year
by Omega C to Stanislaus and many of the
bio classes we take a major portion of
the course takes place in one of the
labs just like those are down the
hallway and because the lab component of
these classes is so significant we need
to take time each semester to think
about and review lab safety information
even if you've taken numerous lab
courses in the past it's still your
responsibility to demonstrate that you
know important policies and procedures
related to lab safety every time you
walk in the door lab safety is a
cooperative effort our actions in lab
don't just affect one or two people they
have the potential affect everyone in
the room so do your part know your stuff
this video and the accompanying
tutorials are the cornerstone of our lab
safety education and completing them is
a requirement in order to stay enrolled
in your class I'll be your guide as you
learn about lab policies and procedures
from two angles in the first part we'll
talk about some general safety
information and the policy is required
by University and the biology department
in the second part we'll look at some
specific safety equipment in each lab
that you need to know about in case of
an emergency throughout the module or
quiz questions I'll help you measure
your comprehension of the material being
presented you must score 100% and all
the questions that satisfy the
requirements of safety training but
don't worry you can always go back and
retake anything you did not get right
for the first time the goals have
everyone in the class ready to share the
safety responsibility you ready let's
get started
the most basic part of lab safety is
having access to information about your
surroundings in the lab we have a right
to know about all chemicals we will be
exposed to this means all containers
need to be labeled with the full name of
their materials and any hazard condition
they possess such as flammable corrosive
oxidizer and so on if something needs a
proper label take the initiative to make
sure it gets taken care of we consider
the material to be unattended once the
class has left the area the flipside of
the right to know is the responsibility
to know and as a student in the lab you
are expected to read the labels
carefully and take responsibility for
knowing what it is you're working with
at all times
additional information about chemical
other lab products is available in the
form of safety data sheets
you can ask the biology department
safety coordinator to see any safety
data sheet and they're required to honor
your request
unfortunately safety data sheets are not
available online at this time
once inside the lab there are a lot of
little things to know and most of them
are common-sense first no eating or open
drinks are allowed in the lab so don't
try to finish your lunch at the lab
bench right before class if you bring a
personal water bottle with you it must
be kept closed and secured inside your
backpack during lab obviously no smoking
is allowed in the lab since that's
prohibited in every campus building
lastly do not apply any makeup or
install contact lenses while in lab the
general idea with all of these is to
prevent the lab from being exposed to
potentially hazardous combinations of
chemicals or spills
so you've left the rest of your lunch at
home extinguish your cigarette in an
appropriate container and put on your
makeup before coming to class you're all
set for lab right well not exactly you
now need to make sure you dress the part
first is the goggle policy not to be
confused with the Google policy which
requires all cheating to be done using
Google now not really everyone must wear
chemical splash goggles with indirect
vents as soon as anyone in the class
starts working with a hazardous material
calls can be purchased from the
bookstore if you were two glasses or
contacts you must still wear goggles
over them because your glasses don't
provide enough protection for your eyes
by themselves wear goggles anytime
you're working with anything that can
injure your eyes including flying
particles laser light UV light or
electrical arcs if you are caught
without your goggles while hazardous
materials are being used you will be
told to leave the lab don't make
everyone stare and snicker at you as
you're forced to walk out of the class
in addition to goggles everyone must
wear lab appropriate clothing again your
common sense should prevail here
do not wear open-toed shoes such as
sandals closed toed shoes are mandatory
to protect your feet from spills and
other hazards also everyone must wear a
lab coat or apron whenever hazardous
materials are being handled don't think
you're too sexy for a white lab coat
instead get your geek chic on while
long-sleeve shirts and long pants are
not always mandatory your instructor
might require them on a case-by-case
basis if they're acquired you must abide
by that in order to be allowed in the
lab
despite our best efforts accidents and
spills will happen the best way to
minimize them is to keep your live area
clean and uncluttered if something does
spill tell your instructor and then
clean it up immediately clean up water
spills immediately to prevent any slip
or fall injuries as well as damage to
joining rooms we don't want the room
underneath us to have a rainy day if you
need a mop you'll find one and 2:35 if
the spill is too large for you to handle
notify your instructor to call building
facilities in the case of chemical
spills dispose of leftover chemicals or
contaminated paper towels in the
appropriate containers for liquid and
solid hazardous waste these containers
can be found in each lab never dispose
of hazardous materials in the regular
trash or pour chemicals down a sink
drain what about broken glass simple put
broken glass shards into the tall broken
glass box located in each lab whatever
the situation prompt action is essential
in every case of chemical spills
dangerous equipment failures and any
injuries that occur in the lab you must
report them to your instructor no matter
how small the incident needs to be
documented on a standard incident report
form even if it's not life-threatening
students are injured in lab should go to
the Student Health Center for medical
evaluation if you or the injured person
can't walk to the health center call the
university police for an escort finally
do not clean up blood no one in lab is
allowed to deal with blood even if your
lab partner is Edward from Twilight and
he's feeling a bit peckish if there is
blood from an accident in the lab your
instructor will call Environmental
Health and Safety to come clean it up
a word of warning regarding injuries and
medical care the university does not
reimburse students for treatment for
injuries that occur in class or lab in
other words the university is not liable
for treatment costs and you'll have to
go through your regular physician and
health insurance for treatment be aware
that the treatment offered by the
Student Health Center for lab injuries
is very basic and subject to limited
hours of operation nevertheless you
should inform your instructor if you
think your health might be adversely
affected by any class activity or if you
think your state of health my adversely
affect the ability of the class to
perform an activity depending on
situation your instructor might ask you
to consult with your doctor before being
allowed to continue in lab
one last bit of safety etiquette don't
be a jerk
inappropriate behavior lab cannot and
will not be tolerated
remember lab safety is everyone's
responsibility if you're acting
foolishly or are disrupting class or
you're refusing to comply with
department safety procedures you will be
told to leave don't make the cops come
and taze you that's not how you want to
spend your 15 minutes of fame